* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Consciousness](#consciousness)
** [Sense-certainty](#sense-certainty)
** [Perception](#perception)
** [Understanding](#understanding)
* [Self-consciousness](#self-consciousness)
* [Reason](#reason)
* [Spirit](#spirit)
* [Religion](#religion)
* [Absolute Knowledge](#absolute knowledge)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Introduction

The Phenomenology of Spirit, or simply the Phenomenology, is a discussion about our knowledge, and the truth, and how to reduce the gap between these two concepts. Hegel’s analysis can be summed up in just two words: triadic movement. Everything for Hegel is either a movement or a moment of a movement. Art for example is a movement, whereas the Renaissance for example, is just a moment within that movement. The moments of a movement are not linear: they are triadic - they form a triad. How the triad works is that the moments are broken into three parts: first is the most basic one, then is its opposite, and finally the unity of the two. So for example in this book we first look at something from one perspective, then we look at it from the other perspective, and finally we unite the two perspectives into a new perspective.

The first question we look at is finding some basis to work off of, in our search for the truth. The Phenomenology of Spirit was originally titled “Science of Experience of Consciousness”.

# Consciousness

The Phenomenology begins with the consciousness which Hegel defines as the part of each person that is trying to “unify knowledge and truth”, in other words the part that is trying to know what is true. If you think about how you know the truth, what comes to mind? You might say that “knowing what is true” comes from understanding and thinking about what you know and deriving the truth that way. You might say that you know what is true just from seeing and hearing the world, you know that grass really is green because you can see that it's green - maybe you don’t know some more complex truth but you know that you are seeing what you’re seeing. You might even say that it is impossible to really know the truth. 

So what is Hegel’s view? Well instead of having just one view on the matter Hegel instead suggests that consciousness is a process, a development or a movement. He takes the different views on consciousness from different philosophers throughout history and instead of adding his own new view, he places all those other views onto a line from beginning to end.

## Sense-Certainty

First we take the most basic form of consciousness, in other words the most basic way of claiming to know the truth, which Hegel says is when you “accept only what is immediately sensed”. What this means is simply accepting the world for what it is and nothing more. 

Contradiction 1: Immediacy vs Mediation

The first two contradicting things we encounter are immediacy and mediation:

Imagine an event takes place - maybe a crime or a sports event. If you hear about it from someone else then your knowledge of the event is mediated through them. While immediacy is the lack of mediation, Hegel would argue that directly witnessing an event might still not be pure immediacy. 

If you witness an event directly your knowledge of the event might still be mediated by other things. While watching esports, even in the stadium, you are mediated by the projectors. Hegel goes so far as to say that if you see a tree and think of it as a tree then your knowledge of the object before you is mediated by your conception of what a tree is. 

So if mediation covers even your own knowledge: How is it possible to have immediate knowledge? Imagine you are in a park, lying on the grass, feeling the heat, seeing the sky, and hearing the birds. If you just take it all in as senses, without thinking of the heat as heat, the sky as the sky, etc… If you simply sense and say “this is” then you have achieved simple immediacy.

Contradiction 2: Particularity vs Universality

The next conflicting concepts to look at are particularity and universality.

Simply put: particularity is the way in which something is unique, while universality is the way in which something is not unique. Is a tree particular or universal? In other words: Is a tree unique or not? Well it is unique in that it is not the same as any other tree, but it is not unique in that it has “being a tree” in common with every other tree. Knowing what a tree is, however, would be a mediation according to Hegel and therefore our initial sense-certain consciousness accepts that everything is completely unique and particular.

What form does sense-certainty’s knowledge have? As I said previously, all it can do is say: “This, here, now” referring to its sensual experience in the moment. When sense-certainty refers to “here” it could be referring to a tree if that is what it's experiencing, but “here” might later refer to a house if it turns around. The “now” might refer to night-time, but later it might refer instead to morning. Both the basic experiences, “here” and “now”, are actually universal. They are universal because all “here”s share being “here” in common, and likewise all times (all “now”s) share being “now” in common.

The consciousness thus accepts universality.

## Perception

What is happening now is called, by Hegel, Aufhebung which is usually translated to sublation. What it means is that we have transitioned to a new stage. We moved past accepting only immediacy and uniqueness, but we haven't negated it: we haven't accepted only universality, we now accept both. We don't accept the original, nor the opposite, so we have sublated to a higher stage. 

Where the object of sense-certainty was the "this", the object of perception is the "thing". Now that we accept universality we can look at a mug and instead of simply saying "I am experiencing this" we can now say "I perceive this thing" and instead of taking in our senses we can now form concepts from it: greenness, roughness, sweetness. 

So what is the contradiction that we are dealing with in this section? Hegel is going to play around with a concept that he uses lots of different terms for:

* Unity and Multiplicity
* The One and the Also
* Intrinsic distinctiveness and Extrinsic diversity

What he is describing is how a thing - for example a mug - is a unity, it's One mug, and it's also a multiplicity of qualities: it's also white, it's also round, it's also solid, smooth, etc… Intrinsic distinctiveness is the same thing: the thing is intrinsically distinctive from other things but it also exhibits extrinsic diversity with its many qualities. 

Hopefully you can see that these concepts are very similar to the old set of immediacy and mediation from sense-certainty. If we accept that every thing is a unity then we can't distinguish between any thing and we are back to sense-certainty. If we accept that things are single things and also a collection of properties then we are stuck in this unstable perception that is trying to reconcile the contradiction. If we accept only the multiplicity of properties and not the unity of the thing, then the thing ceases to be. If we did accept just that then we would have to understand that the properties: whiteness, roughness don't exist by themselves but they exist as a result of something else. 

That understanding is the namesake of the next section that we sublate to: Forces and Understanding where forces are whatever it is that is giving rise to our perceptions. 

## Understanding

We then move on to the final part of the first section. We are still in the realm of empiricism - where we believe the world exists independent of us and we are simply trying to know the truth of it - but instead of relying on our senses, and instead of relying on our perception, we now move to the last view of empiricism which is scientific empiricism. 

In Hegel's time people believed a whole variety of different things about knowing truth. Today there is a small variation but the vast majority of people are scientific empiricism so this section is about what most people believe these days. That is that the world exists by itself but we can't directly experience it's true nature. There is something that underlies this world but we cannot see it directly. You can think of this invisible thing which underlies our world as atoms, as quarks, maybe as mathematics itself, or the forces. 

The problem that we run into with this line of thinking is how we can know anything about these underlying forces if they are invisible to our senses. How scientists get around this is by observing the world and creating laws which explain why things happen the way they do. This is the system of scientific empiricism according to Hegel - what he refers to in the Phenomenology as "Understanding".

Hegel then, of course, talks about the problems in this view:

* Firstly he notices the trend for laws to be consolidated. 
** Galileo's Law of Fall explains how things fall
** Kepler's Law of Planetary Motion explains how the planets move
** Newton's Law of General Gravitation consolidated both those laws into one grand law
** Einstein's Theory of Relativity further condensed that together with the Laws of Motion and Attraction, etc
** The consolidation of laws into grand laws actually makes them less specific, less useful, and makes you understand less about the world. 
* The second issue is that laws don't actually explain anything. They merely describe things. Laws don't help explain why things happen at all. 

To overcome these problems Understanding does a very strange thing:

* The things that it experiences can be collectively referred to as the world of appearances. 
* The forces that we know of only through our laws can be called the world of laws, but Hegel calls it the supersensible world. 
* If believing in this World of Laws produces problems then we can solve it by imagining an inverted world. When he says inverted he really means inverted (Up is Down, Day is Night, Courage is Cowardice, etc…) If everything in this world is the opposite then surely those problems will go away. 
* Understanding realizes at this moment that everything that it has been doing so far has been conjured in its own consciousness. How can it invent something and then believe its own invention?

This final realization leads consciousness to make a major transformation. 

# Self-Consciousness

Up until now consciousness has had two basic beliefs:

* There is a clear distinction between the self and the other (where "the self" is the consciousness, and "the other" is everything that isn't the consciousness from the world to objects to other people) 
* The only thing to be certain of is the other

Now that we have accepted the role that our own thinking plays in our knowledge, our basic beliefs have changed:

* We still believe in the distinction between the self and other, but
* We are now first certain of the self, not the other. For this reason we now refer to our consciousness as "self-consciousness"

When the consciousness was certain of the other, the existence of the self was causing problems like universality and unity. These internal conflicts, between the self and the self, we're driving the movement in consciousness from one stage to another. 

Now that self-consciousness is certain of the self, the existence of the other will cause problems. These external conflicts, between the self and the other, are going to drive the movement between stages in 3 parts starting with the conflict between the self and other objects. 

## Self vs Other Objects

When we, as self-consciousness, come across objects Hegel says we want to assimilate them. The self-consciousness wants the objects not to be other objects anymore and instead become part of it, thereby destroying the object. When Hegel says "assimilation" and "destroying" he is dramatically referring to the way we get what we desire from an object until we can't anymore:

* Food and Drink is consumed
* Books are read and become less desirable to be read each time
* Video games are played and also become less desirable as you get better at them

This is Hegel's simple solution to the self-consciousness encountering other objects. 

## Self vs Other Selves

The real problem arises when we encounter another self-consciousness. For Hegel what we desire from other humans is to be recognized by them. But when we try to do what we did for the objects (get what we want from them, thereby assimilating them into ourselves) it doesn't work for other self-consciousnesses (others that are like us). This is because when we try to get recognition from them, they try to get recognition from us too. We can’t assimilate them so easily because they represent something equal to us.

Hegel then begins to tell a story where two people engage in a "struggle to the death". At some point in the struggle one of the two gives in and says “You win, do what you want, but dont kill me.”  This results in an imbalanced relationship famously titled Herrschaft und Knechtschaft - translated as Master and Slave, or Lordship and Bondage. 

The lord (the winner of the struggle) then puts the bondsman (the loser of the struggle) to work. The bondsman is sent out to find and make objects for the lord to satisfy their desires. This dynamic, however, leads the lord to become lazy and complacent and the bondsman, who is doing all the work, to develop their skills and become more developed.

This story, known as the “Master-Slave dialectic”, is by far the most well known section of the Phenomenology and is Hegel’s way of presenting two problems with self-certainty:

* If you assert that certainty only extends to your own self and to no other selves, in other words taking the position of the Lord, then the problem of the existence of other selves is solved: you can assimilate them into your world as part of yourself. The problem with this is that it provides no path for the development that Hegel is looking for.
* If you instead acknowledge the existence of others, you are taking the same philosophical view as the Bondsman. Hegel is much more interested in this position because he says that it leads to further development through analysing the problem of freedom. 

Hegel moves on to two philosophies that look as if they might solve this problem:

The first is Stoicism, which is philosophy that originated in ancient Greece and Rome and was believed by many actual slaves of the time. Stoicism’s main idea that we can draw back into ourselves. Sure there might be wars, or famines, or I might literally be a slave, but at least I can draw back into my own mind and find that I at least have my own inner freedom.

This is a nice solution but where stoicism falls down is that it then begins to introduce concepts such as good, wisdom, and virtue. These concepts have no basis in stoicism. Hegel will reintroduce these concepts later but only after laying down a foundation for them. Stoicism tells you to draw into your own thought but then pulls out alien concepts from somewhere else.

Hegel then moves on to Skepticism. Skepticism is similar to stoicism except for the additional concepts. When it comes to certainty, skepticism has none. Hegel views skepticism as an ideological pit that you can fall into with few ways out. His main issue with skepticism is that it provides no freedom. For the slave analogy the slave does get a sense of freedom from the flawed perspective of stoicism, but gets nothing out of skepticism. As for the actual topic of the book, certainty, we get absolutely nothing from skepticism.

## Self vs Divinity

The failure of stoicism and skepticism to arrive at freedom or certainty leads us to become what Hegel calls "Unhappy Consciousness". To break out of this unhappiness, Hegel begins a new story: this time about God.

Hegel presents God as a static, unchanging, infinite being. We on the other hand are changing, finite beings. God is universal, whereas we are merely particular. Most importantly, God is an example of a perfect self-consciousness: when it comes to encountering other objects, God is universal, and as such they are a part of God; when it comes to encountering self-consciousnesses, they exist within God too.

The story begins with a self-consciousness entering into a subservient relationship with God, mirroring the master-slave relationship from before. This time, however, the self-consciousness is happy to take that position with respect to God rather than a mere self-consciousness like themselves. As the self-consciousness tries to get closer to the divine, it requires a “divine mediator” AKA a priest. They completely devote themself to the priest and surrender whatever they possess to them. However, as they get closer to the priest, the more they realise that the priest is just another self-consciousness like them, and that the priest has no greater connection to God than they do. After this, they try to bypass the priest as an unnecessary mediator and gain access to God directly. This leads them to a revelation: The unchanging, the thing being desired throughout self-consciousness  is, in the end, reason. 

# Reason

We now enter a new section of the book where we don't simply take the self to be the most basic truth, nor simply the other, but instead we take them both together as one unity: I am everything, everything is me. Hegel calls this view of being all reality “idealism”. Initially, however, it is “empty idealism” because it is believed dogmatically. There is no positive reason to believe in this idealism but it is believed regardless.

The new goal is to “fill” this empty idealism. What we need to know our place in the world. We need to look at the world and see our place in it, and we need to look at ourselves and see the world in us. How we will do this is triadically: first we will observe the world and try to find our place in it that way, then we will try to make our place in the world through our own actions, and finally we will explore a union of the two ways.

## Observing Reason

### Observing Nature

The first thing that we observe may not seem obvious, but Hegel always wants to begin with the immediacy and so we begin with the observation of Nature. He doesn't mean living nature in particular but all of nature together. This means rocks, rivers, acids, even gravity but it also includes living nature as a part of it. When we encounter living things, however, we will observe them the same way that we observe anything else: using the laws of motion, chemistry, etc… 

This first kind of observation clearly has order in abundance. The laws that apply to chemicals and moving objects for example are very rigid and predictable. We can also see ourselves in the world using this approach: in a chemistry class you might find people saying that atoms “like” to have 8 electrons in their shells, this is known as anthropomorphism. To see yourself in the world means both to see things like you in the world, which Hegel is here employing purpose for, and also to see yourself as part of the world, which in this case means seeing ourselves as mere objects which obey the laws of physics, etc… 

We now need to start looking at the problems:

* Non-living things don't have a purpose, even if our instincts lead us to think that way
* There are some elements of the Natural world that cannot be explained purely through the Natural Laws: living things may fall in the same way as rocks, and they might boil or freeze at expected temperatures, but they are still completely unpredictable from the perspective of Natural laws

### Observing Organic Nature
Hegel then moves on to a new shape of Observing Reason: Observation of Organic Nature

In this shape we now split Nature into two parts: Organic and Inorganic. The Observations that we learned in the Observation of Nature still apply here, but to understand and predict the specific behaviour of the Organic beings we must create new laws to bring order to this new stage. With organic beings we are also closer to seeing ourselves in the world: It is no coincidence that the focus of this new stage, which we singled out as not containing order, also bears a closer resemblance to ourselves. While we are a Natural thing, we identify even more with being an Organic thing: this shape of Observing Reason sees ourselves as a homo sapien. At the same time when we look at an organic thing we can see a real and believable purpose. In fact organic things have two kinds of purpose: firstly organisms are born with features such as claws which clearly are there for a reason and therefore indicate purpose of some kind, secondly organisms react to things as they happen and show a much more relatable purpose for us.

Hegel refers to this purpose, both types, as the “Inner” of an organism , in contrast with its “Outer” which is all the physical versions of the Inner Purpose. Since there is no “purpose” part of our body, Hegel separates this Inner into 3 parts:

* Sensitivity - which refers to a organism’s  senses, the way it is made aware of the world
* Irritability - which concerns the organism’s reactions
* Reproduction - which concerns the self-preservation of an organism

The Outer equivalents for these Inner parts are

* The nervous system
* The muscular system
* The digestive and reproductive systems

Now once again we start identifying problems:

* Organisms’ purposes cannot be broken into parts because they actually function as one whole
* Organisms’ biology also cannot be broken up because it would kill them

### Observing Self-Consciousness

Finally we move to a new shape of Observing Reason: Observation of Self-consciousness

While, of course, we still accept the observations made of Nature, and of Organic Nature (including Conscious Organic Nature), we now focus on Nature which is conscious of itself: human beings (Self-conscious conscious organic nature). Notice again that as we close in on a more specific thing that is hard to predict with our basic laws, we are closing in on ourselves and therefore finding something that we can identify with even more. This new shape observes other people in the world as having the same purpose as us, and sees ourselves as examples of people.

Observation of Self-consciousness is split into two parts reflecting the Inner and Outer of people. 
We start by observing the Inner of people, both other people and ourselves, and so Hegel begins with observing our own thoughts. The laws that he employs to predict our thoughts are the laws of logic, for example:

* Whatever is, is
* Nothing can both be and not be
* Everything must either be or not be

You might initially think that this approach represents form (order) too strongly and has no content (real world meaning) but Hegel sees it differently: Hegel says that this logic-based approach is actually too focused on content. It is focused on observing our thoughts but spends no time explaining why we have the thoughts we do. It has no ability to predict thought and therefore brings no order / form. 

We can then move from pure thought to psychology which is still focused on our Inner. Psychology is different in that it tries to predict our behaviour based on our environment and upbringing. 

Hegel is going to reject the idea that we can predict the behaviour of a person using factors from their environment and upbringing but his approach is not a common one. He agrees that whatever a person does is ultimately determined by these external factors but he doesn’t think that it is possible to create laws regarding them for the following reasons:

* Even if it was possible to learn all of the external factors that an individual has experienced, you still would have no other example to contrast it with. There are no two people who have had the exact same experiences for their whole life.
* If you try to divide it into a collection of experiences, for example :
** Growing up poor
** Being from a particular country
** Having children
* You cannot create any laws regarding these because Hegel says that we can choose which experiences of ours affect our nature.
* This is not an argument for free speech but simply saying that the choice ( the choice that we make about which part of our experience we will let define our character ) is determined by the sum of all our experiences. 
* So in summary we cannot use the sum of all of our experiences because it is unique, and we cannot break it into parts because they all reduce to being about the whole sum again.
We then move to the second part of Observing Self-consciousness: The Outer

If we cannot predict people from observing their Inner, maybe we can predict their behaviour from their Outer. Hegel brings up two specific practices at the time he was writing: Physiognomy and Phrenology. 

* Physiognomy is the study of people’s physical appearance and in particular their face.
** Slimy people have a particular look
** Honest people have a specific look
** Smart people have a specific nose length
** Stupid people have a specific teeth length
** etc…
* Phrenology is the study of people’s skulls.
** Certain types have certain skull shapes
** Thieves might all have a specific bump in a specific part of their skull

Hegel’s critique of using Physiognomy and Phrenology to study and predict someone’s behaviour is of course based on practices at the time, but his discussion of them can be compared to modern pseudo-sciences such as racism, horoscopes, zodiacs, etc… His dislike of them stems from the fact that they simply notice some empty correlations and don't successfully justify how your skull shape can make someone dishonest for example. 

He says "In content, however, such observations cannot differ in value from these: 'It always rains at our annual fair', says the dealer; 'And every time, too,' says the housewife, 'when I am drying my washing.'"

and later he even more aggressively points out that “If any one said, 'You act, certainly, like an honest man, but I can see from your face you are forcing yourself to do so, and are a rogue at heart,' without a doubt every brave fellow to the end of time when accosted in that fashion will retort with a box on the ear." Basically he is saying that if someone does honest work, it is incredibly foolish to accuse them of actually being dishonest because of their face. 

Hegel finally closes off the Observing Reason section quite famously with a dick joke, or more accurately a joke about genitalia, where he says that Observing Reason cannot even explain why the highest and the lowest of our bodies - the highest being sex and the lowest being urination - find physical expression in one organ: the genitals.

“The ignorance of this consciousness about what it says are the same kind of connection of higher and lower which, in the case of the living being, nature itself naively expresses in the combination of the organ of its highest fulfillment, the organ of generation, with the organ
of urination.”

I am curious as to what he would have to say about anal sex. He then finishes with a pun by saying that thus far all we have been doing is effectively “pissing around”.

“The infinite judgment as infinite would be the completion of self-comprehending life, whereas the consciousness of the infinite judgment which remains within representational thought conducts itself like pissing (pissen).”

## Active Reason

### Pleasure and Necessity

The story begins with Active Reason changing its attempt to find itself at home in the world completely. Instead of looking outward through Observation we are now going to look inward in an approach that many people will find relatable. The approach is pursuing pleasure. The rationale, I guess, is that trying to satisfy our pleasures is a way of feeling like you are a part of the world. Many commentators have suggested that Hegel isn’t just talking about simple pleasures like eating and sleeping, but that he is also talking about sex.

The name of the first section of Active Reason is actually Pleasure and Necessity where pleasure represents the inward looking attempt to feel at home in the world, and necessity represents the way that the world intrudes in on our attempt. Some commentators equate “Necessity” with “The necessity of death” but Hegel is really talking about all kinds of necessity including the fact that we have to earn money to get our pleasures and that we have to sustain our bodies etc…

### Law of the Heart

The contradiction between pursuing pleasure and the intrusion of outside necessity results in us moving to a new stage where we now focus on pursuing our own vision for the world, and pushing our views onto others. Hegel calls this vision the Law of our Heart which is both a very beautiful name, and it also contrasts well with the laws in the Observing Reason which were observational laws while this one is of my own heart. In pursuing the Law of the Heart we initially rally against the state, the church and the social order as enemies of our law.

Then, as per usual, Hegel begins listing the problems with this stage:

* This consciousness comes to see that others may not identify themselves with its social programme, just as it did not identify with the social programme that already existed, leading it to adopt a contradictory dismissiveness to the ‘hearts’ of others:
** Others do not ﬁnd in this content the fulﬁllment of the law of their hearts, but rather that of someone else; and, precisely in accordance with the universal law that each shall ﬁnd in what is law his own heart, they turn against the reality he has set up, just as he turned against theirs. Thus, just as the individual at ﬁrst ﬁnds only the rigid law, now he ﬁnds the hearts of men themselves, opposed to his excellent intentions and detestable’ (PS: 224).
* It also comes to ﬁnd that others may oppose it in the name of the existing order, so it can no longer reject that order as alien to the will of individuals:
** It took this divine and human ordinance which it found as an accepted authority to be a dead authority in which not only its own self – to which it clings as this particular independent heart opposed to the universal – but also those subject to that ordinance would have no consciousness of themselves; but it ﬁnds that this ordinance is really annihilated by the consciousness of all, that it is the law of every heart’
* The name of this section is actually “The Law of the Heart and the Insanity of Self-Conceit” and so it is at this part after facing these problems that ‘the law of the heart’ becomes ‘the frenzy of self-conceit’
** The heart-throb for the welfare of humanity therefore passes into the ravings of an insane self-conceit, into the fury of consciousness to preserve itself from destruction”
** It therefore speaks of the universal order as a perversion of the law of the heart and its happiness, a perversion invented by fanatical priests, gluttonous despots and their minions, who compensate themselves for their own degradation by degrading and oppressing others, a perversion which has led to the nameless misery of deluded mankind’.

### Virtue

We then move on to the third stage of Active Reason which is “Virtue and the Way of the World”, but we actually begin with the Way of the World. As far as we are concerned at this stage everyone is just selfishly pursuing the laws of their own hearts and this is the way of the world that we have come to despise. Our new way of opposing the Way of the World is not to push for our own personal Law of our Heart but instead to pursue virtue - a universal and selfless good. This approach, however, suffers from two major problems:

* Virtue is just the Law of the Heart again with a different name.
* The things that the "knight of virtue" pretends to care about ends up being empty: "Virtue utters ‘empty, ineffectual words’ which ‘edify, but raise no edifice"

## Practical Reason

The emptiness of this position leads us to the final part of the Reason chapter which is titled "Individuality Which Takes Itself To Be Real In And For Itself" but I will refer to it as "Practical Reason". This stage begins to really focus on individuality. You might think of individuality as your personality or maybe as your legal identity but what Hegel means by individuality is very general: it is whatever makes you, you. 

If you think about "what makes you, you", there are two main perspectives: firstly that I am an individual because I share qualities with other individuals, the second perspective is that I am an individual because I am different from other individuals - I am not them, I am this individual. Hopefully you now are starting to get an appreciation for the poetry in this book: it almost rhymes. I sound like George Lucas when I say that but this book genuinely does have symmetry. The issue of individuality is broken down, once again, into particularity and universality. 

This concept of individuality was there in the previous sections of Reason but it was pushed to the side:

* In Observing Reason, "what made us, us" was firstly that we were a physical object, then that we were an animal, then that we were a person. We didn't focus on what made us unique but rather what made us an individual. In other words we are an individual because of universality. 
* In Active Reason, "what made us, us" was the things that we were taking pleasure in, the law of our hearts, the fact that we alone were pursuing virtue. In other words we are an individual because of our particularity. 

### Spiritual Animal Kingdom

Now in Practical Reason we are going to try to find a way to understand our individuality while accepting both the particular and universal aspects of it. Hegel's first attempt is by looking at "action". 

At the end of Observing Reason, one of Hegel's critiques of Physiognomy was that they were trying to understand the individual by studying facial expressions but Hegel pointed out that our facial expression is under our own control, that it was one of our ways of expressing ourselves, one of our actions, and that we are actually the result of all of our actions put together. This new section of Practical Reason will continue with that line of thought except now focused on accepting the individual as a particular and universal thing.

The initial view is quite simple: similar to in Observing Reason, every individual has Inner Purpose which Hegel calls our “Original Determinate Nature”. This Original Nature within us is what causes us to perform the actions that we perform. This view is also similar to Active Reason because it focuses on the way in which the individual makes their impression on the world through their actions.

This view initially seems good: my actions express who I am, the actions of others express who they are. The problem is that sometimes I make mistakes, and sometimes I have an idea in my head which my actions don’t successfully carry out and as a result I feel alienated when I look back on my own actions. Additionally when I look back on my prior actions I see the work of a different person, someone who has different views and experiences to the current me.

### Law-Giving Reason

In this shape of reason, the objective is still the so called “what really matters” but instead of individual against individual we see that “what really matters” is the object of the whole community AKA the “ethical community”. Hegel moves on from referring to it as “what really matters” to calling it “ethical substance” because we are concerned with the substance of the ethical community, with the substance of ethics itself. We are still in the reason section, however, and therefore we as individuals will try to determine this ethical substance for ourselves. The first approach is, of course, the immediate one: if the ethical substance is universal for everyone then it should be immediately obvious. This is where we start to come up with maxims which seem obvious to us such as 

* “Everyone ought to speak the truth.”
The problem with this is that not everyone knows the truth, so the maxim has to be changed to
* “Everyone ought to speak the truth if they know it.”
The problem with this maxim is that no one can know if what they think it really the truth, so we have to change the maxim to
* “Everyone ought to speak what they think.”
At this point the maxim is so watered down that it has become meaningless.

This problem of obvious maxims being watered down leads us to the next stage.

### Law-Testing Reason

The next stage is called “Law-testing Reason” and it is partially based on Emmanuel Kant's idea that we can arrive at a moral law by thinking it through logically. To analyze this idea he uses the idea of property, as in the idea that certain objects can belong to some individuals:

* This idea is important because it governs things like theft
* Property in and of itself has no logical contradictions, since it is just a simple idea
** Lack of property has no logical contradictions either

# Spirit

## Ethical Spirit

### Ancient Greece

The first historical setting that Hegel examines is Ancient Greece. 

Hegel tells us that ethics in Ancient Greece was split into two parts: 

* The first is what he calls the “Family Sphere”. This side was dominated by women, the family and the gods. For men the family sphere was most important at birth and growing up, and then at death.
* The family sphere is contrasted with the “State Sphere”. This side was dominated by men, the state, and the military. For men the state sphere is where they spend most of their life, before returning to the family sphere.

This system initially seems functional: women can be in charge of family related issues like burials and weddings, while men can be in charge of state and war. While it is not progressive or ideal, it at least appears to function. Hegel points out, however, that in cases where the two spheres come into conflict there is no resolution.

To explain his point he uses the 5th Century BCE play “Antigone” by Sophocles. In the play a man named Polynices dies in a civil war for the control of the city Thebes. After the civil war, the new king Creon publicly condemns Polynices and rules that he cannot be formally buried. This presents a problem for Polynices’ sister, Antigone: should she obey the state and refuse to perform a burial for her brother, or should she obey the gods?

The point Hegel is making with a reference to this play is that there is no correct solution, at least not using Greece’s ethical system.

### Ancient Rome

## Cultural Spirit

### General Interest vs Self Interest
### Noble vs Ignoble
### The Enlightenment

## Moral Spirit

### Moral Worldview
### Conscience

# Religion

## Natural Religion

### Light
### Life
### Artisan

## Art Religion

### Abstract Art
### Living Art
### Spiritual Art

## Revealed Religion

# Absolute Knowledge
# Conclusion
